# libdatastore

A combined library of SQLite3 v3.51.3 and UnQLite-DB v1.2.1 for local usage, to
avoid linking against the system supplied versions of either library.  (Though
it is rather unlikely that there exists a system supplied library for UnQLite-KV
or UnQLite-DB.)

This codebase is updated manually, and is entirely __unaffiliated__ with either
the SQLite project, or Symisc Systems.

The original code and documentation for SQLite and UnQLite may be found at:

* [SQLite3](https://sqlite.org/)
* [UnQLite (Codebase)](https://github.com/symisc/unqlite)/[UnQLite
(Documentation)](https://unqlite.symisc.net/)

Please support the official releases of SQLite and UnQLite.

## Build Instructions

Building `libdatastore` is easy; there's three ways of doing so!  The primary
method is for BSD/Linux/UNIX systems; further for Windows systems there are two
ways of building `libdatastore` using Microsoft Visual C++.

### BSD/Linux: Building with `make`

The makefile provided is written for GNU make.  As such on a BSD system such as
FreeBSD or OpenBSD, use the command `gmake` as opposed to `make`.  Building the
library is as easy as issuing the command

```
make
```

and the object files will be compiled and merged into a static library under the
`lib` directory.  Note, if you do not have GCC, you must override the default
compiler choice at run time.

If you wish to build with support for the International Components for Unicode
library (in SQLite), override the `icu` variable in the makefile.  Similarly,
debug libraries may be generated by overriding the `debug` variable.

```
gmake CC=clang icu=1 debug=1
```

The above example command shows possible combinations of override flags.

### Windows: Building with MSBuild

The `build_vstudio` batch file may be run from a Windows command prompt which
has been setup with the Visual Studio tools.  The batch file invokes MSBuild on
the libdatastore solution file to build 32- and 64-bit debug and release
libraries.

### Windows: Building with Visual Studio

The final option for building on Windows is to open the libdatastore solution
file with the Visual Studio IDE directly, and run the builds from the IDE.
